---
layout: post
title: "Conversations with 3 schizophrenic men"
---

## 2018/02/10

### 5:14 PM. Bierhaus. Feeling ok.

Back in Mountain View. Haven't been home yet. Beer and burger.

I found myself in my second conversation with a schizophrenic man in 4
days on the SF Embarcadero this afternoon. This schizophrenic wasn't
as friendly as the first, though not mean. I wasn't as afraid this
time.

This time I knew from the beginning not to be too eager to inject my
own thoughts into the conversation, and I don't believe I said any
thing at all the entire time, until I needed to excuse myself to catch
the train. He was happy to provide the substance of the conversation
completely on his own, talking nonstop, never looking to me for
comment, nor leaving room for it.

TODO

It's about 40 minutes (I'm guessing - on a journey time gets weird)
into my 3rd MDMA journey when I first hear her voice: "how are you
feeling?"

I'm preoccupied w/ other thoughts, so I store her question for later.
I don't want to ignore her though, so I steart saying my thoughts out
loud, so she'll know I'm ok. I'm looking forward to talking to her.

"Julie wants to know how I'm feeling. I'll figure that out in a
second, but right now I'm trying to drink this bottle of water. I'm going to

- drink some water,
- think about how I'm feeling,
- tell Julie how I'm feeling.

"I love saying what I'm thinking. It makes my thoughts more concrete.
You usually can't do that - people will think you're crazy."

"First I'm going to drink this water. Cool, delicious water. I'm so
lucky to have this water. So many people don't even have water.

"I could recline to drink this water, but I like the challenge. It's
like a puzzle, figuring out how to drink w/out sitting up. Must not
spill water in the bed."

I'm in awe at the blessing that is access to clean water. There is
potable water running out of fountains at whatever park is next to my
motel. Some people don't even have that. Can't drink the water in
Beijing even.

She's saying something, I think. Trying to steer the conversation
somewhere productive, bless her; but this moment is about me, and I
have plans. She'll understand.

TODO

### 6:29 PM, Bierhaus. Feeling good.

This guy and girl two tables away have been experiencing severe drama
over some humorously dumb and inconsequential subjects. By my
projection he is closed emotionally and proud and insecure, and she
digs that and is desperate for his approval. She has been in complete
meltdown because he didn't respect some assertion she made about the
minimum wage. He did some insulting thing, called his parents on his
ipad to disprove semething she said. She's been hysterical about the
offense.

It's been a fascinatingly dysfunctional dynamic, and I feel sad for
both of them.

TODO

The first schizophrenic I meet before the journey begins. The first
schizophrenic I meet one day before the journey begins.

I'm sitting in the shade of the Marin-Sonoma train terminal in San
Rafael. I'm the only one, two hours early. I mostly don't check train
schedules before setting out, and am mostly ok w/ sitting patiently at
train stations for hours.

The schizophrenic first appears to me at the edges of perception.
Somebody is moving around behind the ticket machine.

He vocalizes. I think (am pretty sure) he says "do you know how to use
this?" I am unprepared for social interaction, so fall back on
pretending not to hear him, while I think about whether he said what
he said.

I smile at him and watch him w/ mild interest until he loses interest
in me and continues working w/ the machine. I feel guilty and hope he
figures it out.

A few moments later the schizophrenic is occupying the seat on the
bench next to me. I don't think he ever sat down, but he put his stuff
there.

I'm uncomfortable he would choose to sit right next to me, but I move
past that anxiety, accept that I'm going to need to focus on this
person for a moment, and wait to see what happens.

He asks me something about the train schedule, which is displayed noxt
to me. Access to the schedule at least explains why he would sit so
close. I don't quite follow what he says, but get the idea he thinks
the train comes at 12:30, when it is not until 2:30.

I affect a warm and nonjudgemental disposition and say, "by my reading
the train isn't until 2:30. I think we've got some time".

That was the last of the conversation that I had any grasp on.

When I realized this man was journeying in another dimension, my first
impulses were to fear and panic, figure out how to get away
immediately.

He doesn't appear immediately dangerous. He's smiling and friendly,
though moving a lot. I start breathing deeply and give him my full
attention. This is something interesting. Pay attention.

TODO

### 7:04 PM. Bierhaus. Feeling good.

His name is Dan. I know this because I spent many minutes in
conversation with him.

Like w/ the schizophrenics, I didn't have to say much. He wanted to
unload after screwing up w/ his girl.

Dan bought me a beer. He felt self-conscious about making a scene,
about screwing up w/ his girl.

I submitted to Dan's will, fully engaging in the connection and moment
between us. What else have I to do? Another good practice opportunity.

I think he was happy to have some companionship in his confused moment
of failure.