---
layout: post
title: "How to buy a stake in the next 40 years of computing"
tags: [rust]
---

There's a lot changing in the world of computers and exciting times
are ahead. We're all ambitious here, and we all want to have our stake
in the future of computing. And one way we claim that stake is by
controlling the platform. It's a time-honored market strategy in the
technology industry - when you control the platform the technology
world build off of that gives you power: power to build trust and respect,
power to influence others' direction, TODO.

The entire global internetworked computing system is one big platform,
and every day we're building more platforms on top of and inside that
platform, shaping the future of computing. Everybody wants a piece.

But one component of the computing platform remains unassailable, and
elusive. It's the thing at the bottom of the software stack. The thing
with the utmost power to shape everything it's built off of. The thing
'systems' are built off of. If you control the very bottom of the
stack you will have incredible power.

Think of the influence over the last 40 years that C and C++ have had.
They are everywhere. They touch everything. It seems almost unimaginable
to replace the systems platform language.

But it's going to happen. It's happening.

...

## Rust is already living in the future

Rust is the only next-generation systems language ready for the future
of computing.

Do you think IOT is the future? Rust [runs runs on bare metal embedded
systems], small ones, and smaller in the future, places you would only
run C today.

Do you think massive-scale distributed cloud systems are the future?
Rust is designed for programming in the large, and its reliability
advantages pay dividends [the bigger you dream].

Do you think blockchain technology is the future? Rust has the
security properties that you can [trust your utmost secrets to].

The incredible diversity of use-cases Rust satisfies is because it is
memory-safe, runtime-free, and poses little, if any, astraction tax.

Whatever language ultimately replaces C or C++, it will either build
on the techniques that Rust has already painstakingly brought to
production; or it will require some yet unknown innovation.

If you care about creating a world that builds on the kinds of
foundations Rust provides, then investing in Rust is the fastest way
to get there.

## The Rust industry adoption strategy

...

For a few million dollars a year you can buy a major stake in the
future of computing. $10 million a year is nothing for today's tech
giants, but it would be a quantum leap for Rust.

Rust has a full-time paid staff of 7 at Mozilla. That's practically
nothing. The size of the total Swift team at Apple is a multiple of
that.

In fairness, there are others paid to work on Rust these days. The
numbers are growing. Mozilla employes Rust programmers on other teams,
companies like [Boyant] employ core [tokio] developers. Consulting
firms like [Integer32] contribute to Rust (though often under contract
with Mozilla).

Our strategy is working. Slowly. But I want so much more. A major
infusion of money would very likely propel Rust into a dominant market
position in its crucial niches.

A major company that wanted to make a major Rust push could likely
hire several members of the Rust core team today, as well as numerous
other experienced Rust team members, developers, and educators.

##


## Why do you want a piece of Rust?

TODO

goodwill

##

Rust has been in development for 7 years, and it is clean and
battle-tested. It is [ready for production].

The time to push is now. Right now.

The world needs a big signal that Rust is legit, that it delivers on
its promises,

## The future can be better

You care about this. I care about this. A changing of the guard is
coming in systems programming, and this time we don't have to settle
for worse is better. We can have it all.

Microsoft - call me; Google - call me; Facebook - call me; Amazon -
call me; Red Hat - call me; Oracle - call me; Samsung - call me;
Qualcomm - call me; Tencent - call me; everybody that cares about the
systems we all build off of and suffer with every day - call me. We
can create the world we deserve together.

(Don't really call me - email me).
