---
layout: post
title: "Intro to cognitive behavior therapy"
---

The last few years have been difficult for me emotionally. The 20 or
so years prior to that were also difficult, but the last few were a
more vivid, enduring, and turbulent kind of difficult. During this
time I experienced a series of psychological traumas that rocked me
hard, made me doubt myself more than ever, and deeply resent and
distrust the world around me.

With my entire self-image wrapped up in my work, and finding no solace
in it, I reoriented my priorities to improving my own mental and
physical health, which I had neglected entirely for most of my life;
the idea being, and which I still believe, that I have to love and be
happy with myself first, and only then can others love my, and can I
be satisfied with those around me, and the reality I experience. I had
always hated myself, and focused my efforts outward, and that had
stopped working for me dramatically, suddenly.

From that point on, and still today, my first priorities were
achieving mental and physical fitness. I haven't succeeded to my
satisfaction yet - I so often lose sight of my goals - but I have
accomplished a lot, and learned a lot about myself.

So I started spending a lot of my time working on myself, creating
good habits and dropping bad habits: started hiking, started going to
the gym and lifting weights, started eating with better nutrition,
stopped drinking, stopped smoking weed; injured myself, stopped
lifting weights, started drinking again, started smoking weed again,
started eating poorly again, stopped hiking; stopped smoking weed
again, started biking, started hiking again, stopped biking, stopped
drinking again, started lifting weights again, etc. It's an endless
cycle of ups and downs.

I also started psychotherapy.

I initially entered psychotherapy because I was experiencing extreme
emotions that were disrupting my relationships at work, and I was
desperately afraid of it destroying my career. I didn't know what else
to do, so get professional help. I remember vividly when I told my
manager that I was entering psychotherapy the pall that fell across
her face, like that was the moment she finally knew she had been wrong
about my positive qualities.

I don't generally presume to give others advice, but if there's one
thing I would recommend to young people, it's to get their mind and
body in order. Your self is the one thing you can count on, and you
are stuck with it all your life. To succeed it needs to be the best it
can, and it can fall apart faster than you expect. You get old faster
than you expect. Past neglect catches up to you faster than you
expect. I believe now that everybody can benefit immensly from regular
psychotherapy, and look forward to the day it is treated with more
respect.

My initial desperate search for a psychotherapist was completely
uninformed: like with most such searches I simply opened up yelp and
looked for someone with good reviews. I wanted to get started
immediately to stop the damage, didn't know what I was looking for.
Somebody just help me, please.

Although I spent a year with that therapist, ultimately I was not
enthusiastic about their style of practice, which I felt was not very
well grounded in science. Simply being in therapy though, having the
experience of being open with my emotions, and becoming acquainted
with psychotherapy in general, was rewarding.

There are today many branches of psychology and psychotherapy, and I'm
yet familiar with only a few. Modern psychotherapy is much more
diverse than one might be aware of; it is not simply the style to
which we are most exposed in popular media, that of traditional
Freudian "talking" therapy, where the client lays on a comfy couch and
unloads about whotever is on their mind; and the therapist attempts to
relate this to parents and sex. Or whatever. My impresion is that
traditional talking therapy is antiquated and relatively ineffective,
though I have found occassionally that simply unloading everything I'm
thinking, without any particular direction or objective, has been
exactly what I needed at the time, and can be cathartic.

Simple talking, though it can feel good, and bring relief, doesn't
tend to bring about lasting change. More modern approaches seem to
attempt to equip their patient with techniques they can use to change
their experience with, and relationship to, the world around them.

TODO history of depression

TODO what is cbt basically?
